---
title:  "Arrangement of tubes in a tube bank: a heuristic approach"
category: MechE
tags: heat-transfer HMT fluid-mechanics MATLAB FEATool CFD simulation
permalink: /HMT-L-tubes-in-a-bank
toc: true
tagline: grass touching ceremony
---
Place tubes in a bank for maximum heat transfer.
<!--more-->

## For a shorter version, [click here](https://minerva-007.github.io/tubes-arrange-short). For the files, [click here](https://github.com/Minerva-007/HMT-L-OEL)

# Premise
This project was undertaken for the completion of course entitled "Heat and Mass Transfer - Lab" under the supervision of Dr. Talha Khan. The objective was to heuristically assess different configurations of ten tubes placed in a tube bank and to determine the potentially optimum arrangement for the tubes. The project was a good learning experience (in terms of heat transfer and simulations) and also got an excellent grade.

# The basics
## What's a tube bank?
Readers would probably be aware of shell and tube heat exchanger. The setup consists of a tank (other names are container, bank, shell, whatever suits you) through which a series of tubes are passed (as the name implies). The tubes carry one fluid at higher temperature, while the shell houses the fluid at lower temperature. Heat transfer occurs due to temperature difference, and the purpose of heat transfer is achieved.

A tube bank is, essentially, the same thing. From what I have found, shell and tube heat exchangers with a crossflow configuration are called tube banks, and the ones with parallel or counter flow are just shell and tube HX.

## Why arrangement matters?
The tubes are present in a cross flow condition in the tube bank. That is, the tubes are perpendicular to the flow of fluid through the shell. The tubes will, hence, interact with the flow of the fluid and disrupt it. Now, if you recall from your heat transfer course, disruption of flow induces turbulence, and turbulence enhances heat transfer. So that must be a good thing. On the other hand, disruption reduces the flow velocity of the fluid (it adds resistance) and also drops the total pressure of the fluid as it flows. So one must remove it.

From here, it is clear that a sweet arrangement should exist where the turbulence induced by the tubes is just enough to enhance heat transfer, but does not cause a drop in fluid velocity (which will reduce heat transfer anyways) and pressure (harder to pump fluids through the bank). An example graph may clear the idea.

## What does the literature say?
Instead of reinventing the wheel, we turn ourselves towards the literature that has solved the problem more than a hundred years ago. It is found that tubes configured in a staggered manner (akin to how bricks are placed when building a wall) produce higher Nusselt number (a measure of heat transfer ability). This is intuitive as well: tubes placed inline would reside in the wake region of leading tubes, resulting in an extremely reduced flow velocity around the periphery. However, one may argue, that a vertical place perpendicular to the flow would be the most ideal situation, since it exposes maximum surface to the incoming flow. This argument is rectified by the observation that the resistance added by the vertical plate causes a decrease in velocity which also reduces heat transfer.

# My team's work


# References
[1] Olanrewaju, Ridwan Olaitan. "Design, Construction And Performance Evaluation Of A Dual-Powered Cooker." Phd Diss., Department Of Mechanical Engineering, Faculty Of Engineering And Technology, Ladoke Akintola University Of Technology, Ogbomoso, 2019.

[2] Procházka, Martin, Jindřich Sobotka, Karel Šuhajda, and Miloslav Novotny. "Microwave radiation and its application on construction materials." _Engineering Structures and Technologies 8_, no. 4 (2016): 150-156.

[3] Tamang, Santosh. _Analytical Modeling on Multiphase Heat and Mass Transfer in Full-Scale Gas-to-Gas Heaters for Ultrasupercritical Pulverized Coal-Fired Power Plant Applications._ Arkansas State University, 2018.

[4] Beale, Steven B. "Tube banks, single-phase heat transfer in." In _Thermopedia_. Begel House Inc., 2011.

[5] Zukauskas, A., and Romanas Ulinskas. "Heat transfer in tube banks in crossflow." (1988).

[6] Lawson, Seth A., Alan A. Thrift, Karen A. Thole, and Atul Kohli. "Heat transfer from multiple row arrays of low aspect ratio pin fins." _International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer 54_, no. 17-18 (2011): 4099-4109.


## [Back to Main Page](https://minerva-007.github.io/)
